### The 6 Focus Horizons Of Getting Things Done (Kata)

Many equate Getting Things Done with organizing daily tasks. However, with the 6 Focus Horizons, there is also a structured approach to planning larger periods of time up to the meaning of life. In this kata, you will learn about the 6 focus horizons and schedule necessary appointments for them. The 6 focus horizons should be thought through at least once a quarter, half year or year (Quarterly, Yearly).



**Step 1:**

Familiarize yourself with the 6 focus horizons (Source: [The Altitude Map](https://gettingthingsdone.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/10/2016-Levels-of-Your-Work.pdf) by David Allen):

- **HORIZONT 0/GROUND - Calendar/Actions:** The next physical, visible actions to be taken for a project or other deliverable; each individual action to be taken for anything.
- **HORIZONT 1 - Projects:** Outcomes we want to achieve that require more than one action and can be completed within a year.
- **HORIZONT 2 - Areas of Responsibility:** Key areas of work and life that need to be maintained 
  on standards to "keep the engines running."
- **HORIZONT 3 - Goals and Objectives:** What specifically do we want and need to accomplish within the next 12 to 24 months to achieve the vision?
- **HORIZONT 4 - Vision:** How it will look, sound, feel when successfully implemented. Long-term results and ideal scenarios.
- **HORIZONT 5 - Purpose and Principles:** The ultimate intent for something and the benchmarks for its success. Why do we do it? What are the critical behaviors?

Use the Getting Things Done book or one of the following sources for this:

- Blog [The 6 Horizons of Focus](https://gettingthingsdone.com/2011/01/the-6-horizons-of-focus) by David Allen
- Article [The Altitude Map](https://gettingthingsdone.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/10/2016-Levels-of-Your-Work.pdf) by David Allen
- [GTD Workflow Map](https://i.redd.it/e8j47hceq4l41.jpg) by David Allen



**Step 2:**

Think about how often and on which date you want to deal with the horizons 2-5 (at least 1x per year). And put the dates in your calendar as a recurring appointment.



**Step 3:**

Using the sources above, think about the questions you want to ask in your Quarterly or Yearly and how you want to document the results. Create a checklist for Quarterly/Yearly (e.g., with the other checklists in your lernOS Memex).

**ProTip:** the *Past Forward* format from Week 0 is great for developing an idea for your vision.

**ProTip:** the results from Horizon 5 "Purpose and Principles" reflections can be documented in the center of the lernOS for You Canvas.



**Advanced Information:**

* Video [Areas of Focus, Responsibility and Interests](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k18K_8T_eHU) with David Allen.