### Make a Weekly Review (Kata)

In this kata, you set the time, place and schedule for your weekly review. The purpose of the Weekly Review is to review the past week and the next weeks and to bring your organizational system up to date. 



**Step 1:**

Determine when and where you want to do your Weekly (1-2 hours should be enough). Put the weekly in your calendar as a recurring appointment. Choose a time when you have time and energy. Also, the weekly should be at a time that is rarely needed by other events.

**ProTip:** To make the Weekly Review as enjoyable as possible, associate it with things that are pleasant and fun for you. E.g. your favorite drink, favorite place, favorite music or your favorite time.



**Step 2:**

Play through the weekly review once for the last week. Use the [GTD Weekly Review Checklist](https://gettingthingsdone.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/10/Weekly_Review_Checklist.pdf) by David Allen to create your own checklist. It might look like this:

1. put **everything** in the inbox that you haven't already put there. 
2. empty the inbox
3. review **next steps**.
4. look through the calendar of the last week (are there any ToDo's for you?)
5. check the calendar of the next weeks (are there any to-dos for you to prepare?)
6. check the **wait for list**.
7. review **projects-list**
8. **Mind-Sweep**.

**ProTip:** document your Weekly Review Checklist in the lernOS Memex that you always have on hand and can easily adjust.



**Advanced Information:**

* Chapter Move 9 David Allen's Getting Things Done Workbook.