### Create Your Reference Repository (Kata)

In this kata, you determine which tools you will use as reference files, create them and define a basic structure. The reference file is where you store all your reference material for quick access.



**Step 1:**

Determine which tool or tools you want to use for your reference file. The following questions will help you do this:

1. what kind of content do I need to store in my reference file?
2. is structuring in folders/subfolders enough for me or do I also need categories/keywords?
3. do only I access my reference filing or should the filing be accessible to others in whole or in parts?
4. do i need to be able to search the reference file?
5. do I need DeepL access to access selected content very quickly?

**ProTip:** use the meme SMAC (social, mobile, analytics, cloud) to select tools for reference filing. Examples: social: content can be made available to others; mobile: content is available on mobile devices; analytics: frequently used content is displayed preferentially; cloud: content is stored (securely) in the cloud for convenient access from multiple devices.



**Step 2:**

Think about which content topics should be mapped in your reference repository. These will form the entry points (navigation) into your reference file. Some examples of typical topics:

- Administration
- Work resources
- Activities/Tasks
- Images
- Contacts
- Bookmarks/Favorites
- music
- Network
- Organizations
- Passwords
- Projects
- Strategy
- Events
- videos
- Knowledge areas/topics



**Step 3:**

Use the results from the previous steps to create your reference repository or adapt the existing structure. Test the repository in the coming weeks and continuously improve structure and functionality.

**ProTip:** document your reference filing on a page in your lernOS Memex.



**Advanced Information:**

- Chapter *Move 8* in David Allen's Getting Things Done Workbook