### Gathering Stuff and Sweeping the Mind (Kata)

In this kata you will develop a sense of where "stuff" is gathering in your physical environment that you will later need to incorporate into your organizational system. You probably also carry a lot of stuff around in your head and new stuff is constantly being added. These loose ends weigh you down and prevent you from fully focusing on an activity. You will move these things out of your head and into a system you trust.



**Step 1:**

Take a thorough look around your physical and virtual workspace and write down where "stuff" is accumulating that you need to process. Try to collect all "stuff" in an inbox (e.g., a folder, a binder). The places can be, for example:

* Piles of paper
* Things in your pocket or backpack
* Sticky notes and reminders
* To-do lists and checklists
* Folders and binders
* Notebooks
* Purse or handbag
* Letters and bills
* Inbox (maybe faxes?)



**Step 2:**

Another physical place with "stuff" is your head. With a so-called "mind sweep" you can bring everything from your head into a system you trust. To do this, write down **everything** that is on your mind. What needs to be done now and in the near future? What needs to be initiated now? Who needs to be called? Create one note per idea or task, whether electronic or on paper. Mass counts in this exercise. Don't stop until nothing comes.



**Step 3:**

Use David Allen's [Incompletion Trigger List](https://gettingthingsdone.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/10/Mind_Sweep_Trigger_List.pdf) to get more things out of your head and into your system, such as:

* Projects
* Articles or books to write
* Financial topics
* Plans
* Administrative
* IT systems
* Meetings
* Further education
* and much more.



**Advanced Information:**

* Video [Capture in your In-tray](https://gettingthingsdone.com/insights/capture-into-your-in-tray) with David Allen
* Chapter *Move 1: Capture All Your Incoming Paper into One In-tray* in the [Getting Things Done Workbook](https://amzn.to/3wXiftE) by David Allen