### Set Up Your Project Environment (Kata)

In GTD, projects are anything that **requires more than one work step** AND is to be completed within a year. Projects are more complex tasks that run sequentially or in parallel. Therefore, it is important to always have an overview of ongoing and upcoming projects and to be able to draw on experience from past projects.



**Step 1:**

If you haven't yet decided which tools to use for mapping projects, do so now. It is recommended to use one tool for textual documentation of projects (e.g. Evernote, Obsidian, OneNote) and one for task management (e.g. Todoist, MS To Do).

**ProTip:** if you have a lernOS Memex, use it for project documentation.



**Step 2:**

Create an overview of all your running projects in the project documentation. If you like, you can also list later starting and already finished projects.

**ProTip:** David Allen recommends that when naming projects, always use a meaningful verb that describes the activity to achieve the desired result.



**Step 3:**

Create a page (1-pager) for each ongoing project with key information about the project. This could include goals, people involved, links to resources and documents, process of the project, etc.

**ProTip:** For simplification, I recommend you to create a template for projects, which you can use again and again.



**Step 4:**

For each project, create a list of the next steps in the project (project plan). Enter all the steps that are necessary to successfully complete the project there. The list of activities in the project does not have to be maintained in the same tool as the project documentation. Combinations such as Obsidian + Todoist or OneNote + MS To Do are recommended.



**Further information:**

* Chapter *Move 7* David Allen's Getting Things Done Workbook.