### Which Inbox(es) Do You Want To Use? (Kata)

In this kata, you'll get an overview of the inboxes you want to keep track of. Since this can quickly become a lot, you will apply the laws of simplicity to make your inbox system as simple as possible.



**Step 1:**

Use the following checklist to get an overview of your inboxes. Document all inboxes in a list (e.g., in lernOS Memex).

* What physical inboxes do you have (letters, mailbox, backpack/bag, folders, etc.)?
* Have you thought of all the email inboxes?
* Do you have other inboxes on social media (e.g., personal messages on social media).
* Do you use chat/messengers that need to be considered as inboxes?
* Do you use the bookmark or save function in social networks to save content for later (e.g. in LinkedIn, Twitter, Slack, Teams or SharePoint)?
* Do you use special bookmarking or reading list tools such as Pocket or Read it Later?
* Do you have one or more folders on your computer that serve as an inbox (e.g., collection of documents you want to read later)?
* Do you use your browser's bookmark feature to bookmark content for later?



**Step 2:**

In the digital world, an overwhelming number of inboxes can quickly accumulate. Now use John Maeda's [10 Laws of Simplicity](http://lawsofsimplicity.com/) to find approaches to simplify your "inbox jungle."

* **Law 1 REDUCE:** The simplest way to achieve simplicity is thoughtful reduction.
* **Law 2 ORGANIZE:** Organization makes a system appear more manageable.
* **Law 3 TIME:** Saving time feels like simplicity.
* **Law 4 LEARN:** Knowledge makes everything easier.
* **Law 5 DIFFERENCES:** Simplicity and complexity need each other.
* **Law 6 CONTEXT:** What is peripheral to simplicity is definitely not peripheral.
* **Law 7 EMOTION:** More emotions are better than few.
* **Law 8 TRUST:** We trust in simplicity.
* **Law 9 ERRORS:** Some things can never be made simple.
* **Law 10 THE ONE:** Simplicity is about subtracting the obvious and adding the meaningful.